The Project Gutenberg eBook of International Harvester Refrigerator
Recipes, by Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: International Harvester Refrigerator Recipes

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: July 7, 2021 [eBook #65793]

Language: English

Produced by: Stephen Hutcheson, Lisa Corcoran and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net 

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
REFRIGERATOR RECIPES ***





                              tempting ...
                             different ...
                            easy to make....




                        International Harvester
                              REFRIGERATOR
                                RECIPES




                          REFRIGERATOR RECIPES
                             _with Results_


    [Illustration: Pictorial title]

In this booklet are refrigerator recipes and suggestions which we have
developed to make your menus more tempting and varied ... to make meal
planning easier. All have been tried, tested, and checked. Included are
recipes for sparkling beverages, luscious desserts, and refreshing
salads. If you want to see your children race to the table ... if you
want to see pleasure written all over your husband’s face ... if you
value your reputation as a hostess, with a talent for the unusual in
food, use these recipes. We can vouch for the results!

They’re so easy-to-make, you can whip them up with a minimum of effort.
And they’re so tempting to look at, that eyes open ... mouths water ...
at the very sight of them. They really make mealtime the best time of
the day. When you see how usable these recipes are, you’ll keep this
booklet right near your IH refrigerator ... to be used constantly!

Should you have any questions or problems, please write us. Remember
that we in the Home Economics Department are at your service—just like
your IH Refrigerator—_all the time_!

                                                            _Sincerely_,
                                                          {Irma Harding}
                                                        _Home Economist_
                                       _International Harvester Company_
                                             _180 North Michigan Avenue_
                                                   _Chicago 1, Illinois_

Copyright 1950, International Harvester Company


                            FROSTY BEVERAGES

    [Illustration: With your International Harvester Refrigerator to
    provide you with a generous supply of ice cubes, you will be serving
    many cooling, colorful beverages in the summer time. Here are some
    suggestions for making these mid-afternoon and evening pick-ups
    especially refreshing.]


                       ICE CUBES FOR COLD DRINKS

Use either crushed or whole cubes. Crushed ice cools beverages more
quickly; cubes last longer and add a pleasant tinkle.


                            FANCY ICE CUBES

Freeze curls of lemon or orange peel, maraschino cherries with stems, or
sprigs of mint, a raspberry or strawberry in ice cubes.

Freeze leftover fruit drinks in the ice-cube trays to serve in iced tea
or other beverages.

For fancy cubes, freeze the cubes slowly to prevent cloudiness and
expansion. If fruit is to be frozen in the cube, fill tray ⅓ full of
liquid, partially freeze and add fruit. Allow to freeze into position.
Add water to within ¼ inch of top of tray and finish freezing.

Freeze punch in cubes or in a block—ideal for chilling the punch bowl
and cooling the beverage. Children will love these frozen cubes of sweet
fruit flavor if sticks are inserted in the mixture when nearly frozen so
they will resemble frozen suckers.


                        TO FROST RIMS OF GLASSES

Put lemon juice into a shallow dish. Sift superfine granulated or
powdered sugar onto a plate—about ¼ inch deep. Invert each glass in the
lemon juice. Lift out of juice, place into the sugar for a minute. Lift
carefully out of the sugar so as not to jar the sugar coating which has
formed on the rim. Place in the refrigerator until “set.” Fill glasses
with the beverage, being careful not to disturb the frost.


                             USE OF SYRUPS

Keep several kinds of syrups on hand in your refrigerator. Leftover
syrup from canned fruit makes a delicious base for chilled fruit
beverages.


PLAIN SUGAR SYRUP

  1 cup sugar
  1 cup water

Combine sugar and water, boil 5 minutes, cool and store in refrigerator;
can be used for iced tea and fruit drinks.


CHOCOLATE SYRUP

  ½ cup cocoa or 2 squares unsweetened chocolate
  1 cup sugar
  1 cup water
  ⅛ teaspoon salt
  1½ teaspoons vanilla

Combine cocoa, sugar, water and cook over low heat about 5 minutes, or
until thickened. Cool. Add salt and vanilla. Store in refrigerator.
Chocolate syrup is ideal for milk drinks.


PUNCH-TEA BASE

  2 teaspoons tea
  2 cups boiling water
  1 cup sugar
  1 cup orange juice
  ½ cup lemon juice
  ½ cup cold water
  1 quart chilled ginger ale

Pour boiling water over tea. Cover and allow to stand 3 minutes. Strain
over sugar. Stir until sugar is dissolved. Cool. Add orange and lemon
juices and cold water. Ice well. Add ginger ale just before serving
punch. Base can be stored in refrigerator for later use. Yield: 10 to 12
servings.


CRANBERRY ORANGE PUNCH

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  ¼ cup sugar
  ¾ cup water
  One 6-oz. can frozen orange juice
  1 bottle (1 pint) cranberry juice
  2 tablespoons lemon juice
  Red food coloring
  1 cup ginger ale

Add water to sugar; place over heat and bring to a boil, dissolving
sugar. Cool. Add frozen orange juice, cranberry juice, lemon juice and
few drops food coloring. Mix well and chill. Just before serving add
ginger ale. Yield: 1½ quarts.


FROSTY GINGER ALE PUNCH

  2 quarts lime sherbet
  2 quarts ginger ale

Add ginger ale to sherbet in a punch bowl. When sherbet has partially
melted, serve in punch cups. Other flavor sherbets can be used. Serves
24.


STRAWBERRY FLOAT

  One 1-lb. package frozen strawberries
  ½ pint strawberry ice cream
  2 cups milk

Allow strawberries to thaw slightly. Sieve berries and add milk and ice
cream. Stir until ice cream is partially melted. Serve in tall glasses.
Yield: 1 quart.


PINEAPPLE FLUFF

  2 eggs, separated
  3 tablespoons sugar
  1 cup milk
  ½ cup unsweetened pineapple juice

Beat egg yolks, add sugar and milk. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites.
Add pineapple juice and mix well. Pour into fruit juice glasses.
Especially yummy for the kiddies! Yield: 4 servings.




                            Frozen Desserts


    [Illustration: You can easily make delicious, smooth-textured frozen
    desserts in your International Harvester refrigerator. And you can
    add variations of your own choice. Fruits in season add a luscious
    taste as do flavors such as chocolate, coffee, maple, caramel,
    marshmallow or nuts. Having a supply of ice cream variations on hand
    in your refrigerator will be a convenience and will provide tempting
    treats for you and your family.]


ICE CREAM

Ice cream frozen in a household refrigerator usually employs special
ingredients such as whole eggs, egg yolks, gelatin, corn syrup, flour or
cornstarch, or hot syrup poured over egg yolks or whites to counteract
the formation of ice crystals. These ingredients add body and richness
and contribute to the smoothness by producing finer ice crystals. They
also increase the amount of air that can be incorporated, resulting in a
greater volume. Combinations that are too sweet will not freeze firm in
a refrigerator. A good proportion is 1 part sugar to 4 parts liquid.

To freeze ice cream, set the cold control for fast freezing (coldest
position). Pour the mixture into the tray and place it on the bottom of
the freezing compartment in contact with the refrigerated surface.
Freeze until firm throughout. Remove the frozen mixture from the tray to
a chilled bowl and break up the mixture with wooden spoon (a wooden
spoon does not conduct heat from the hand as a metal one does). Work
quickly. Beat with an electric mixer or a rotary beater until mass is
free of hard lumps. Gently fold in egg whites or whipped cream. Return
the mixture at once to the tray and place it in the freezing
compartment. Moisten the bottom of tray to insure good contact and to
hasten freezing. When frozen, reset cold control at midway between
normal and coldest point to mellow ice cream until time to serve.


VANILLA ICE CREAM (Uncooked Base)

  1 envelope gelatin
  ¼ cup cold water
  1¾ cups milk, scalded
  ½ cup sugar
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  2 teaspoons vanilla
  1½ cups cream, whipped

Soften gelatin in cold water and dissolve in hot milk, Add sugar, salt
and vanilla. Cool until slightly thickened. Fold in whipped cream. Pour
in refrigerator tray and freeze 1 hour, or until mush-like in
consistency. Turn into chilled bowl. Beat with rotary beater or electric
mixer until smooth. Work quickly so mixture does not melt. Return to
refrigerator tray to complete freezing. Yield: 6 to 8 servings.


VANILLA ICE CREAM (Cooked Base)

  ⅔ cup sugar
  1½ tablespoons cornstarch
  1½ cups top milk
  2 eggs, separated
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  2½ teaspoons vanilla
  1 cup cream, whipped

Combine sugar and cornstarch in the top of a double boiler; gradually
stir in milk. Cook over boiling water, stir constantly, until the
mixture thickens. Cover and cook for 10 minutes. Stir a small portion of
the hot mixture into the beaten egg yolks. Add yolks to remaining hot
mixture. Cook over hot, not boiling, water; stir constantly for 3
minutes. Cool. Add vanilla and salt. Fold beaten egg whites into cooled
custard. Pour into refrigerator tray and freeze until firm throughout.
Remove to a chilled bowl. Beat with rotary beater or electric mixer
until smooth. Work quickly so mixture does not melt. Fold in whipped
cream. Return to refrigerator tray to complete freezing. Yield: 6 to 8
servings.


FROZEN PLUM PUDDING

  1 square (1 ounce) unsweetened chocolate
  3 tablespoons sugar
  ½ cup milk
  ½ cup chopped dates
  ½ cup currants
  ½ cup chopped pecans
  1 egg separated
  1 tablespoon sugar
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  1 cup cream, whipped

Melt chocolate with sugar and milk. Add dates, currants, pecans and cook
over hot water until fruits are somewhat softened. Add beaten egg yolk.
Chill this mixture in refrigerator. Whip egg white until stiff, add 1
tablespoon sugar. Fold into chocolate mixture. Add vanilla. Fold whipped
cream into chocolate mixture. Set cold control at coldest setting; pour
mixture into freezing tray and freeze until firm. Reset cold control at
midway between normal and coldest point and allow pudding to mellow
until serving time. Yield: 6 servings.


ICE CREAM CRUMB PIE

  1½ cups chocolate cookie crumbs
  1½ pints ice cream
  ¼ cup butter
  ¼ cup sugar

Roll thin chocolate wafers with rolling pin to make crumbs. Cream
butter. Add crumbs and sugar. Mix well. Pack half the crumb mixture in
freezing tray. Place in refrigerator to chill. Cover crumbs with ice
cream; pack down well. Press remaining crumbs firmly on top. Return to
refrigerator and freeze. If desired garnish with whipped cream before
serving. Yield: 6 to 8 servings.


BUTTERSCOTCH SUNDAE SAUCE

  1¼ cups brown sugar
  ¾ cup light corn syrup
  ¼ cup butter
  ¾ cup light cream

Combine ingredients; heat slowly until sugar is dissolved. Cook until
mixture spins a thread (232°F.) Cool. Yield: 2 cups.


FUDGE SAUCE

  1 cup sugar
  1 cup water
  ½ cup light corn syrup
  3 squares (ounces) unsweetened chocolate
  ½ teaspoon vanilla
  1 cup evaporated milk

Combine sugar, water and corn syrup; heat slowly until sugar is
dissolved. Cook, stirring occasionally, to soft ball stage (236°F.).
Remove from heat and add chocolate, stir until melted. Add vanilla and
evaporated milk. Cool. Yield: 2½ cups.

    [Illustration: PARFAITS: A parfait is made from stiffly beaten egg
    whites over which a thick, hot syrup is poured. When the mixture is
    cool, it is combined with stiffly beaten whipped cream. Parfaits are
    frozen without stirring.]


FRUIT PARFAIT

  ¾ cup sugar
  ½ cup water
  2 eggs, separated
  ⅓ cup maraschino cherries, chopped
  ¼ cup maraschino cherry juice
  2 cups cream, whipped

Boil sugar and water until it spins a thread (232°F.). Add slowly to
beaten egg yolks. Beat constantly until cooled. Stir in fruit and juice.
Fold in beaten egg whites and cream. Turn into refrigerator tray. Set
cold control on coldest position. When frozen, reset cold control at
midway between normal and coldest point and allow mixture to mellow
several hours. Yield: 8 servings.

  NOTE: Other fruits and juices can be substituted for the cherries.


MOLASSES NUT PARFAIT

  ⅓ cup molasses
  2 tablespoons sugar
  ¼ cup water
  2 eggs whites, stiffly beaten
  1 cup heavy cream, whipped
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  ¾ teaspoon cinnamon
  ½ cup chopped black walnuts

Cook together molasses, sugar and water to soft ball stage (236°F.).
Gradually pour syrup into stiffly beaten egg whites; beat constantly
until mixture is cool. Add vanilla and cinnamon. Fold in whipped cream
and walnuts. Pour mixture into freezing tray of refrigerator and place
in freezing unit (set cold control on coldest setting) to freeze. After
mixture is frozen reset cold control at midway between normal and
coldest point and allow mixture to mellow several hours Yield: 6
servings.


MOUSSES: A mousse is made from whipped cream and combined with one of
various flavorings, or fruit pulps, chocolate, macaroons, etc. Mousses
are frozen without stirring. Set cold control on coldest setting. When
frozen, reset cold control midway between normal and coldest to mellow
before serving.


VANILLA MOUSSE

  2 cups cream, whipped
  ⅓ cup sugar
  1½ teaspoons vanilla
  2 egg whites, beaten (optional)
  1½ teaspoons lemon juice

Add the sugar, vanilla and lemon juice to whipped cream. Fold in egg
whites. Freeze in a refrigerator tray without stirring. When frozen,
reset cold control at midway between normal and coldest point and allow
mixture to mellow for several hours. Yield: 8 servings.


STRAWBERRY MOUSSE

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  1 cup crushed strawberries
  ½ cup sugar
  2 cups heavy cream, whipped
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  ⅛ teaspoon salt

Combine fruit pulp and sugar. Fold in whipped cream; add vanilla and
salt. Freeze in refrigerator tray without stirring. After freezing,
reset cold control at midway between normal and coldest point and allow
mixture to mellow several hours. Yield: 8 servings.


SHERBETS: A sherbet is an ice with egg whites, milk, cream or gelatin
added. Any recipe for an ice can be converted to a sherbet by the
addition of stiffly beaten egg whites, or by substituting milk for the
water called for in the recipe. Rather than make a syrup, scald the milk
with the sugar and corn syrup in the top of a double boiler. Cool, add
remaining ingredients and proceed as directed for ice cream.

Remove the mixture from the tray into a chilled bowl. Add unbeaten egg
whites. Beat until light in color and a smooth mush in texture. Put back
into the tray and return to refrigerator to complete freezing.


SHERBET

  1 cup sugar
  2 cups water
  2 teaspoons unflavored gelatin
  ¼ cup cold water
  2 egg whites, unbeaten
  1 cup fruit juice or ½ cup crushed fruit
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  2 tablespoons lemon juice

Soften gelatin in ¼ cup cold water. Combine sugar and water and bring to
a boil. Dissolve gelatin in hot mixture. Cool. Add fruit juices or
crushed fruit and salt. Pour into refrigerator tray. Freeze until firm
throughout. Remove to chilled bowl. Add unbeaten egg whites. Beat with
rotary beater or electric mixer until light and fluffy. Return to tray.
Freeze until firm. Yield: 6 to 8 servings.


CRANBERRY SHERBET

  4 cups cranberries
  2 cups water
  2 cups sugar
  1 teaspoon unflavored gelatin
  1 cup orange juice
  3 tablespoons grated orange rind
  ¼ cup lemon juice

Cook cranberries in water until skins pop; put through a food press. Add
sugar and heat to boiling. Soften the gelatin in orange juice and stir
into hot mixture. Add orange rind and lemon juice. Pour into
refrigerator tray and freeze. Turn into mixing bowl and beat until light
and fluffy. Return to tray. Freeze firm. Serve sherbet as a main course
accompaniment, a punch float or a dessert.


LEMON CREAM SHERBET

  2 teaspoons grated lemon rind
  ½ cup lemon juice
  1½ cups sugar
  2 cups milk
  2 cups light cream

Combine lemon rind, lemon juice, and sugar. Allow to stand several
hours. Add lemon mixture to milk and cream. Turn into refrigerator tray.
Freeze until firm throughout. Remove to chilled bowl and beat with
rotary beater or electric mixer until smooth and fluffy. Return to
refrigerator to complete freezing. Yield: 8 to 10 servings.


FRUIT SHERBET

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  2 cups mashed bananas
  ⅓ cup lemon juice
  ⅓ cup orange juice
  ½ cup light corn syrup
  ⅛ teaspoon salt
  1 egg white
  ⅓ cup sugar
  1 cup milk
  ¼ cup maraschino cherry juice
  ½ cup coarsely chopped maraschino cherries
  ½ teaspoon grated orange rind

Mix lemon juice with bananas, then add orange juice, corn syrup and
salt. Beat egg white until stiff but not dry; gradually beat in sugar.
Fold into banana mixture. Add milk, cherry juice, cherries and orange
rind. Pour into refrigerator tray. Freeze until mixture is almost firm.
Place in chilled bowl and beat. Return to tray and continue freezing
until firm. Yield: 8 servings.


ICES: An ice is a mixture of fruit juices, sugar and flavoring. Combine
fruit juices and chilled syrup as directed. Mix well. Pour into freezing
tray. Freeze until firm throughout. Remove from tray to a chilled bowl,
break up with a wooden spoon and beat with an electric mixer or rotary
beater until free of hard lumps but still a thick mush. Work quickly.
Return to tray to complete freezing.


LEMON ICE

  2½ cups water
  ¾ cup corn syrup
  1 cup sugar
  1 tablespoon grated lemon rind
  ⅔ cup lemon juice
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  Yellow food coloring

Combine water, corn syrup, sugar and lemon rind in a saucepan. Stir
until sugar is dissolved. Bring to a boil and boil for 5 minutes without
stirring. Cool. Add lemon juice. Strain mixture to remove lemon rind.
Tint a delicate yellow shade with a few drops of food coloring. Freeze
in a refrigerator tray until firm throughout. Remove to chilled bowl.
Break up with a wooden spoon and beat with rotary beater or electric
mixer until light. Return to refrigerator to complete freezing. Yield: 6
to 8 servings.




                            Chilled Desserts


There are many delectable desserts made from a gelatin base. These are
usually called Whips, Snows, or Creams, according to the fruit
combination, such as Cherry Whip, Grape Snow, or Pineapple Bavarian
Cream. Other desserts which have eye and taste appeal are combinations
of fruit, gelatin or cream fillings plus cake or cookie foundation.
Again, these are ideal ways to use the last of the angel food, sponge or
plain cake or extend a small amount of a food to fit your current needs.

Snow puddings attain a characteristic light, airy texture through the
addition of beaten egg whites which are folded in when the gelatin
mixture begins to set. The same holds true of Bavarian creams except
that whipped cream takes the place of the egg whites.

To use plain gelatin as a base, soften gelatin in a small amount of cold
liquid. Stir into the hot liquid. For general use, allow 1 envelope of
gelatin to 2 cups of liquid. If acid fruit juices are used, the
proportion of 1 envelope of gelatin to 1¾ cups liquid is more
satisfactory. To hasten setting of gelatin mixtures and to preserve the
fresh fruit flavors, heat only half of the liquid to dissolve the
softened gelatin. Then add the other half cold. _Note_: Fresh pineapple
juice or pulp must be scalded before using with gelatin because of an
enzyme in fresh pineapple that keeps gelatin from jelling.

To remove molded gelatin desserts, dip mold into a pan of warm (not hot)
water for about 30 seconds. The water should come almost to the top of
the mold. Then dessert can be removed easily to the serving plate by
inverting mold on the plate. Turn mold over carefully and dessert will
remain on plate; this action is done in the same manner as one removes a
cake from the pan.


ORANGE-BANANA CAKE

  1 package orange-flavored gelatin
  1½ cups hot water
  ¼ cup sugar
  Few grains salt
  ¾ teaspoon grated orange rind
  ½ cup orange juice
  ¾ cup whipping cream
  1½ cups finely diced bananas
  12 lady fingers

Dissolve gelatin in hot water and add sugar, salt, orange rind and
orange juice. Chill until mixture starts to thicken. Whip cream until
thick but not stiff. Fold cream and bananas into gelatin. Line a bread
pan with waxed paper. Line bottom and sides of mold with lady fingers,
split lengthwise. Fill mold with gelatin mixture. Arrange lady fingers
over top of gelatin. Chill until firm. Remove from mold and slice.
Yield: 8 servings.


PINEAPPLE REFRIGERATOR CAKE

  1 envelope unflavored gelatin
  ¼ cup cold water
  1 No. 2 can crushed pineapple
  1 cup sugar
  ½ cup chopped maraschino cherries
  ¼ cup chopped pecans
  3 egg whites
  2 cups whipping cream
  2 dozen lady fingers or slices of sponge cake

Soften gelatin in cold water. Drain pineapple and heat pineapple juice.
Dissolve gelatin in pineapple juice, add sugar and stir until dissolved.
Cool. Add cherries, nuts and drained pineapple. Beat egg whites until
stiff but not dry. Fold into fruit mixture. Fold in whipped cream.
Arrange a layer of lady fingers or sponge cake on bottom and around
sides of 9-inch square pan. Pour mixture into pan and top with a layer
of lady fingers or sponge cake. Let stand in refrigerator 24 hours.
Slice and serve. Yield: 12 servings.


SNOW PUDDING

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  1 envelope unflavored gelatin
  ¼ cup cold water
  1 cup boiling water
  ⅔ cup sugar
  1 teaspoon grated lemon rind
  ¼ cup lemon juice
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  2 egg whites

Soften gelatin in cold water. Dissolve in boiling water. Add sugar,
grated rind, lemon juice and salt. Cool. Chill until partially set. Beat
egg whites until stiff. Add gelatin mixture. Continue beating until
mixture holds its shape. Pour into mold or ice cube tray. Chill. Serve
with custard sauce. Yield: 6 to 8 servings.

Variation: Substitute 1 cup hot fruit juice for water. Decrease lemon
juice to 2 tablespoons. Omit lemon rind.


CUSTARD SAUCE

  2 cups milk
  2 egg yolks
  ¼ cup sugar
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  1 teaspoon vanilla

Scald milk in the top of a double boiler. Beat egg yolks slightly. Add
sugar and salt. Stir several spoons of scalded milk into egg mixture.
Keep water in bottom part of double boiler below boiling point during
rest of the cooking period. Add egg mixture to scalded milk, stirring
constantly. Cook until the custard thickens only enough to coat a metal
spoon. Cool. Add vanilla. Store in covered dish in the refrigerator
until time to serve. Yield: 6 to 8 servings.


BAVARIAN CREAM

  1 envelope unflavored gelatin
  ¼ cup cold water
  2 eggs, separated
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  ⅓ cup sugar
  1 cup milk, scalded
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  1 cup cream, whipped

Soften gelatin in the cold water. Combine beaten egg yolks, salt and
sugar. Add scalded milk slowly, stirring constantly. Place in top of
double boiler. Dissolve softened gelatin in hot mixture. Cook over hot,
not boiling water until mixture coats a metal spoon. Cool until mixture
begins to thicken. Add vanilla. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites and
whipped cream. Turn into a 1½ quart mold or into 6 to 8 individual molds
that have been rinsed in cold water. Chill until set. Unmold for serving
either plain or topped with fresh fruit or berries.


PEPPERMINT CREAM

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  1 cup crushed peppermint stick candy
  2 cups whipping cream
  ½ envelope unflavored gelatin
  2 tablespoons cold water
  One 10-ounce can chocolate wafers

Combine candy and ½ cup whipping cream, heat in double boiler until
candy is dissolved. Soften gelatin in cold water and add to candy
mixture. Chill until partially set. Fold in 1½ cups cream, whipped.
Place chocolate wafer halves around edge of 8-inch square pan. Arrange
layer of wafers in bottom of pan. Add half of gelatin mixture; top with
layer of wafers, add remaining gelatin mixture and top with wafer
crumbs. Chill at least 12 hours. Yield: 9 servings.


CHOCOLATE WHIPPED CREAM CAKE

  Two 8-inch sponge cake layers
  1½ cups whipping cream
  1 cup thick chocolate syrup
  2 tablespoons sugar
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  ¼ chopped nuts

Split layers of sponge or plain cake in half crosswise, making 4 layers.
Whip cream until it begins to thicken. Add the chocolate syrup all at
once. Continue to beat until the mixture is smooth, thick and well
blended. Add sugar and salt. Spread between the cake layers. Cover top
and sides with the remaining cream. Sprinkle nut meats over top of cake.
Chill in the refrigerator for 24 hours. Yield: 8 to 10 servings.


CHOCOLATE REFRIGERATOR CAKE

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  1 package chocolate bits
  2 tablespoons sugar
  3 tablespoons cold water
  3 eggs, separated
  1 cup cream, whipped
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  ½ teaspoon peppermint extract (if desired)
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  18 lady fingers, split

Melt chocolate bits in top of double boiler. Add sugar and water. Mix
well. Remove from heat. Stir gradually into beaten egg yolks. Beat until
smooth. Chill until cold. Add salt and flavorings. Beat the egg whites
until stiff but not dry. Fold into chocolate mixture. Fold in the
whipped cream. Line a loaf pan with waxed paper. Put a layer of lady
fingers on bottom and around sides. Add half the chocolate filling, more
lady fingers, remaining chocolate and lady fingers. Chill in the
refrigerator until set. To serve, remove from pan and garnish with
whipped cream. Yield: 12 servings.


MELLOW CHOCOLATE

  2 squares (2 ounces) unsweetened chocolate
  ½ cup boiling water
  1 envelope unflavored gelatin
  ¼ cup cold water
  3 beaten egg yolks
  ¾ cup sugar
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  ½ teaspoon vanilla
  3 egg whites stiffly beaten

Melt chocolate in boiling water. Soften gelatin in cold water and add to
chocolate mixture; stir until gelatin is dissolved. Beat egg yolks, add
½ cup sugar and beat until light and fluffy. Combine with chocolate
mixture; add salt and vanilla. Cool. Add remaining ¼ cup sugar to
stiffly beaten egg whites and fold into chocolate mixture until
thoroughly blended. Chill in bowl. Spoon into sherbet glasses. Garnish
with whipped cream. Yield: 8 to 10 servings.




                                  Pies


    [Illustration: Light, airy, colorful and delicious are the
    refrigerator pies you can prepare with the aid of your International
    Harvester Refrigerator. These pies are commonly referred to as
    chiffon, cream or Bavarian pies. Being light and cool, they are
    ideal for the final touch to a summer dinner. The shell or crust can
    be either baked pastry or a crumb crust, according to one’s
    individual preference. If a baked pie shell is preferred, it will
    keep its shape better if chilled in the refrigerator before baking.

    CRUMB PIE SHELL: Add ½ cup butter and 2 to 4 tablespoons sugar to 1¼
    cup crumbs. For crumbs use either graham crackers, chocolate wafers,
    or crisp prepared cereals. Spread in a 9-inch pie pan and chill
    thoroughly.]


ROLLED OATS CRUST

  2 cups quick oats
  ½ teaspoon cinnamon
  ⅔ cup melted butter
  ½ cup brown sugar

Mix all ingredients. Spread ½ cup of mixture on a shallow pan and press
rest of mixture into a 9-inch pie pan. Bake in moderate oven (350°F.)
for 20 minutes. Sprinkle the ½ cup crumbs over top of pie for garnish.


GINGER SNAP CRUST

  1 cup crushed ginger snaps
  ¼ cup sugar
  ¼ cup melted butter

Mix sugar with ginger snap crumbs. Add melted butter and stir until well
blended. Press firmly into bottom and sides of 9-inch pie pan. Bake 8
minutes at 375°F. Cool.


LEMON CHIFFON PIE

  4 eggs, separated
  ½ cup lemon juice
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ¾ cup sugar
  1 envelope unflavored gelatin
  ¼ cup cold water
  1 teaspoon grated lemon rind
  One 9-inch pie shell

Combine beaten egg yolks, lemon juice, salt and ¼ cup of sugar in top of
a double boiler. Cook over hot water to a custard consistency. Soften
gelatin in cold water. Dissolve in hot mixture. Add lemon rind. Cool
until mixture begins to thicken. Beat egg whites until stiff. Gradually
add the remaining ½ cup of sugar. Fold into lemon mixture. Fill a baked
pie shell with mixture and chill in refrigerator. Garnish pie with
sweetened whipped cream before serving.


VANILLA CHIFFON PIE

  1 envelope unflavored gelatin
  2 tablespoons cold water
  2 eggs, separated
  1½ cups milk
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ½ cup sugar
  2 teaspoons vanilla
  One 9-inch crumb shell

Soften gelatin in cold water. Combine beaten egg yolks, milk, salt and ¼
cup of the sugar in the top of a double boiler. Cook over hot, not
boiling, water until mixture thickens, stirring constantly. Dissolve
softened gelatin in hot mixture. Chill until mixture begins to thicken.
Add vanilla. Beat egg whites only until stiff; gradually beat in
remaining sugar. Fold into gelatin mixture. Pile lightly into crumb
shell. Chill until firm. Spread with whipped cream and garnish with
grated semi-sweet chocolate or chocolate shot.


CHOCOLATE CHIFFON PIE

  1 envelope unflavored gelatin
  ¼ cup cold water
  2 squares (2 oz.) unsweetened chocolate
  1 cup milk
  2 eggs, separated
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  ½ cup sugar
  ⅔ cup cream, whipped
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  One 9-inch pie shell

Soften gelatin in cold water. Combine chocolate and milk in the top of
double boiler. Heat over boiling water until chocolate is melted. Beat
until smooth. Dissolve softened gelatin in the hot mixture. Beat egg
yolks until thick and lemon-colored. Gradually beat in salt and about
half the sugar. Add hot chocolate mixture slowly. Add vanilla. Mix well.
Chill until mixture begins to thicken. Beat egg whites only until stiff.
Gradually beat in remaining sugar. Fold egg whites and whipped cream
into the chocolate mixture. Pile lightly in the pie shell. Chill in
refrigerator until firm. To serve, top with sweetened whipped cream.


PINK LEM-BERRY PIE

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  1 package strawberry flavored gelatin
  ½ cup hot water
  ¼ cup lemon juice
  ¼ cup sugar
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  1½ cups heavy cream
  1 teaspoon lemon rind, grated

Line a deep 9-inch pie plate with graham cracker crust (Page 15). Save ¼
cup of the crumb mixture for topping. Dissolve gelatin in hot water. Add
sugar, lemon juice and salt; chill until partially set. Whip cream until
it begins to thicken. Add gelatin mixture and whip until soft peaks are
formed. Fold in lemon rind. Pour into graham cracker crust. Top with
remaining crumbs. Chill until firm.


FRESH STRAWBERRY PIE

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  1 quart fresh strawberries
  1½ cups sugar
  1 envelope unflavored gelatin
  ¼ cup cold water
  2 tablespoons lemon juice
  Red food coloring
  1 cup cream, whipped
  One 9-inch pie shell

Wash and cap strawberries. Sprinkle with 1 cup sugar. Let stand in
refrigerator for several hours. Soften gelatin in cold water. Press half
the berries and all the juice through a sieve to make 1½ cups of sieved
berries and juice (if necessary, add water to make up the full amount).
Add remaining ½ cup sugar and lemon juice. Heat to the boiling point.
Dissolve gelatin in hot strawberry mixture. Add coloring to give a
bright red color. Chill until mixture begins to thicken. Place remaining
whole berries in pie shell. Cover with thickened gelatin mixture. Chill
until firm. Top with sweetened whipped cream before serving.


PINEAPPLE CHEESE PIE

  1 envelope unflavored gelatin
  ¼ cup cold water
  3 egg yolks
  1 cup crushed pineapple not drained
  1 teaspoon grated lemon rind
  2 tablespoons lemon juice
  ⅓ cup sugar
  1 cup cottage cheese
  3 egg whites
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  ½ cup sugar
  One 9-inch crushed corn flakes crust (page 15)
  Reserve three tablespoons crumbs for topping

Soften gelatin in cold water. Combine egg yolks, pineapple, lemon rind,
lemon juice and ⅓ cups of sugar, in top of double boiler and cook,
stirring constantly. When thick, remove from heat and add softened
gelatin. Sieve cottage cheese and add to hot mixture. Cool until mixture
begins to thicken. Add salt to egg whites and beat till stiff. Gradually
beat in ½ cup sugar. Fold into cold mixture. Turn into chilled crust,
sprinkle with crumbs; chill till firm.


BLACK BOTTOM PIE

                            CHOCOLATE LAYER

  2¼ teaspoons unflavored gelatin
  3 tablespoons cold water
  1⅓ cups milk
  3 egg yolks
  ⅓ cup sugar
  2¼ teaspoons cornstarch
  ⅛ teaspoon salt
  1½ squares (ounces) unsweetened chocolate
  ¾ teaspoon vanilla
  One 9-inch chocolate wafer crust (page 15)

Soften gelatin in cold water; scald milk in double boiler. Beat egg
yolks slightly; stir in combined sugar, cornstarch and salt. Slowly stir
in milk. Return to double boiler; cook, stir over hot water until
custard coats spoon. Remove from heat, stir in gelatin until dissolved.
Melt chocolate in saucepan, remove from heat. Slowly stir in one half of
the custard, reserving other half for white layer. Add vanilla; beat
until smooth. Cool until mixture starts to thicken. Pour into crust and
chill.

                              WHITE LAYER

  3 egg whites
  ⅛ teaspoon cream of tarter
  ¼ cup sugar
  2 tablespoons rum or ½ teaspoon rum flavoring

Beat egg whites with cream of tartar until stiff. Add sugar. Fold in
remaining half of custard and rum. Pour on top of chocolate layer. Chill
until set.

                                TOPPING

  ¼ cup cream, whipped
  ½ square unsweetened chocolate, grated

Just before serving, spread whipped cream on pie and sprinkle with
chocolate.




                                _Salads_


    [Illustration: The secret of a successful salad is thorough chilling
    and crisping of all ingredients. Salad greens should be thoroughly
    cleaned and dried; fruits well drained; meat, fish and cheese cut
    into bite-size pieces of uniform shape. Eye-appeal is important. Add
    colorful garnishes to a salad that is not naturally colorful.

    Salads for the main course should contain some protein-rich foods,
    such as chicken, meat, fish, or cheese, and vegetables. Marinate
    meat or vegetables separately in a tart French dressing and combine
    just before serving. Mayonnaise or cooked dressings give added food
    value and body to salads of this kind. For meat, chicken or fish
    salads, allow ½ cup ingredients and 2 tablespoons dressing per
    serving. The salad will be more attractive if the pieces are large
    enough to be identified.]

MIXED GREEN SALAD: A green salad served before, after or with a hearty
main course should be light and tangy, the servings should be small, and
the dressing tart. Greens can include lettuce, chicory, romaine, water
cress or endive. Other raw vegetables can be added, such as tomatoes,
radishes, onions, cucumbers, carrots, beets, spinach leaves, turnips,
and cauliflower or broccoli flowerettes.

SALAD TACTICS: When choosing the dressing to accompany the salad,
remember a safe rule to follow is simple dressings for accompaniment
salads, hearty dressings for main-course salads and sweet dressings for
dessert salads. Too much dressing can ruin a salad. It is best to season
salads lightly and provide additional dressing on the side.

Dip fruits that darken in lemon juice. Pieces of fruit should be large
enough so they can be identified. Many of the smaller fruits and berries
can be left whole or halved. Allow ½ cup fruit per serving. Handle salad
foods lightly. Do not mix excessively, or packing and bruising may
result. Keep salads in the refrigerator until ready to serve. Long
waiting in room temperature causes them to lose their crispness. It is
good practice to chill the salad plates in your refrigerator before
serving the salad. This applies especially to fruit and gelatin salads.


CRAB STUFFED TOMATOES

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  10 medium sized firm, ripe tomatoes
  2 cups crabmeat (two 7-ounce cans)
  ¾ cup chopped celery
  2 tablespoons chopped green pepper
  1 pimiento, chopped
  2 hard cooked eggs, chopped
  2 tablespoons capers
  ¾ teaspoon salt
  Few grains pepper
  Mayonnaise

Wash tomatoes (peel if desired) and scrape out centers. Sprinkle inside
of tomatoes with salt. Invert and chill in refrigerator. Fill with crab
meat stuffing. Flake crab meat, combine with celery, green pepper,
pimiento, eggs and capers. Season with salt and pepper. Add mayonnaise
to moisten. Garnish with deviled eggs and whole baby gherkins. Yield: 10
servings.


POTATO SALAD

  12 medium sized cooked potatoes
  ½ cup chopped onion
  1 tablespoon salt
  ¼ teaspoon pepper
  1½ teaspoons celery seed
  ½ cup vinegar
  ⅓ cup chopped sweet pickle
  ¼ cup melted butter
  4 hard cooked eggs, chopped
  Mayonnaise

Dice potatoes. Add onion, salt, pepper, celery seed, vinegar and
pickles. Mix lightly. Add melted butter and chopped eggs. If you desire,
add mayonnaise to moisten. Yield: 10 servings.


TUNA FISH SALAD

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  2 cups flaked tuna fish (two 7-ounce cans)
  ¾ cup chopped celery
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ⅛ teaspoon pepper
  1 tablespoon minced onion
  ¼ chopped sweet pickle
  4 hard cooked eggs, chopped
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  ⅓ cup mayonnaise

Combine tuna fish, celery, salt, pepper, onion, pickles, and eggs.
Moisten with lemon juice and mayonnaise. Chill in refrigerator. Yield: 6
servings.


FROZEN FRUIT SALAD

  Two 3-ounce packages cream cheese
  ½ teaspoon salt
  2 tablespoons salad dressing
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  ½ cup drained crushed pineapple
  ½ cup coarsely chopped maraschino cherries
  ½ cup coarsely chopped pecans
  ½ cup diced marshmallows
  1 cup whipping cream
  2 cups diced ripe bananas

Mash cheese with fork. Blend with salt, salad dressing, lemon juice and
mix well. Fold in pineapple, cherries, nuts, bananas and marshmallows.
Whip cream till thick (not stiff), and fold into cheese mixture. Turn
into freezing trays of refrigerator. Freeze until firm with cold control
set at coldest setting. Yield: 8 to 10 servings.


MOLDED SALADS: Before using the mold or molds when making gelatin
salads, rinse them in cold water. Leave excess moisture on the molds, or
brush molds lightly with salad oil. If square sided molds are used they
can be lined with strips of cellophane. If individual molds are not
available, small muffin pans will serve as a convenient substitute, or
pour the mixture into an ice cube tray with the metal grid in position.
Place the tray on the food compartment shelf until salad sets. A plain
gelatin base or a flavored base may be used for the salad. Your choice
depends upon the other ingredients that make up the salad.


VEGETABLE SALAD

  1 envelope unflavored gelatin
  ¼ cup cold water
  1 cup boiling water
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  3 tablespoons vinegar
  1 tablespoon sugar
  1 teaspoon salt
  2 tablespoons grated onion
  2 cups diced vegetables

Soften gelatin in cold water; add boiling water and stir until
dissolved. Add lemon juice, vinegar, sugar, salt and onion. Mix well.
Chill until partially set. Add vegetables. Rinse mold in cold water.
Fill mold with mixture. Chill until firm. Unmold on a bed of salad
greens. Yield: one 8-inch ring mold.


GELATIN BASE FOR MEAT OR CHICKEN SALAD

  1 envelope unflavored gelatin
  1¾ cups bouillon or soup stock
  1 tablespoon grated onion

Soften the gelatin in ¼ cup of the cold bouillon or soup stock. Heat the
remaining stock to boiling; add softened gelatin and stir until
dissolved; add grated onion or other desired seasonings. Makes one
8-inch ring mold. Note: Use chicken bouillon for chicken salad and beef
bouillon for meat salads.


FISH SALAD

Use lemon flavored gelatin and follow directions given on the package.
Substitute 3 tablespoons of vinegar for part of the water. Add 1
tablespoon grated onion and ½ teaspoon salt. Add flaked fish and such
ingredients as chopped hard cooked eggs, pickles, celery, green peppers
and olives.


CHICKEN MUSHROOM SALAD

  1 can condensed mushroom soup
  ½ cup mayonnaise
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  1 envelope unflavored gelatin
  ¼ cup cold water
  1 cup celery, cut fine
  2 pimientos, cut fine
  1½ cups chicken, shredded

Add mayonnaise and lemon juice to soup. Soften gelatin in cold water,
dissolve over hot water. Add gelatin to soup mixture and mix well. Add
celery, pimiento and chicken. Turn into mold and chill until firm.
Yield: 6 to 8 servings.


AVOCADO-CHERRY SALAD

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  1 package raspberry flavored gelatin
  1 No. 2½ can Bing cherries, pitted
  2 avocados, diced
  ¼ cup lemon juice
  2 grapefruit, halved and hollowed out

Cut grapefruit in half, remove pulp and use in other ways. Drain
cherries. Combine cherry liquid and lemon juice and add water to make 1¾
cups of liquid: Heat; pour over gelatin and stir until dissolved. Chill
until partially set. Add cherries and avocado. Pour into half grapefruit
shells and chill until firm. Cut each half in half again for serving.
Yield: 8 servings.


SHRIMP TOMATO MOLD

  1 envelope unflavored gelatin
  ¼ cup cold tomato juice
  1¼ cups hot tomato juice
  ¼ cup sweet pickle juice
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  1 teaspoon horseradish
  2 tablespoons lemon juice
  ¾ cup finely diced celery
  3 tablespoons diced green pepper
  1 package frozen green shrimp, cooked and cut in pieces
  ¼ cup chopped sweet pickle
  2 tablespoons chopped onion

Soften gelatin in cold tomato juice. Add hot juice and stir until
gelatin is dissolved. Add pickle juice, salt, horseradish and lemon
juice. Chill until mixture starts to thicken. Add celery, green pepper,
shrimp, pickle and onion. Turn into mold and chill until firm. Yield: 6
to 8 servings.


LUNCHEON EGG SALAD

  12 hard cooked eggs
  2 envelopes unflavored gelatin
  ½ cup cold water
  1 cup boiling water
  1 cup mayonnaise
  1½ teaspoons salt
  ⅛ teaspoon pepper
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  3 tablespoons chopped green pepper
  2 tablespoons chopped pimiento
  2 drops tabasco

Soften gelatin in cold water, dissolve in boiling water. Put hard cooked
eggs through a sieve or ricer. Add gelatin, mayonnaise, salt, pepper,
lemon juice, green pepper, pimiento and tabasco. Pour salad mixture into
mold. Chill until firm and serve with Mock Russian Dressing. Yield: 10
servings.


MOCK RUSSIAN DRESSING: Mix thoroughly ¾ cup mayonnaise, 1½ cup chili
sauce and ½ teaspoon Worcestershire sauce.


SALMON MOUSSE

  2 envelopes unflavored gelatin
  ¼ cup cold water
  2 cups boiling water
  ¼ cup vinegar
  1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
  2 teaspoons finely chopped onion
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ¼ cup catsup
  ¼ cup heavy cream, whipped
  ¾ cup salad dressing
  ½ cup diced celery
  2 cups flaked salmon
  ½ cup sliced stuffed olives

Soften gelatin in cold water, dissolve in boiling water. Add vinegar,
Worcestershire sauce, onion, salt, catsup and mix well. Chill until
slightly thickened. Fold in whipped cream, salad dressing, celery,
salmon and olives. Pour into fish or ring mold. Chill until firm.
Unmold. Attractive garnishes may be made of sliced olives, tomatoes or
hard-cooked eggs. Yield: 6 to 8 servings.


CONVERSATION SALAD

  1 No. 2½ can Bing cherries, pitted
  ½ cup lemon juice
  1 package cherry-flavored gelatin
  ¾ cup broken pecan meats
  One 3-ounce bottle stuffed olives, sliced

Drain cherries, combine cherry syrup and lemon juice and add water to
make 1¾ cups liquid. Heat, pour over gelatin and stir until dissolved.
Chill until partially set. Add cherries, nuts and olives. Pour into mold
and chill until firm. Yield: 8 servings.


TWO-TONED PERFECTION SALAD

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  1 package lime flavored gelatin
  2 cups hot water
  ¼ cup sugar
  ½ teaspoon salt
  2 tablespoons lemon juice
  ¾ cup finely shredded cabbage
  1 cup diced celery
  2 tablespoons diced green pepper or pimiento

                               Top Layer

  1 envelope unflavored gelatin
  ¼ cup cold milk
  ½ cup hot milk
  ½ teaspoon salt
  1¼ cups cream style cottage cheese (1 carton)
  2 teaspoons minced onion

Dissolve lime flavored gelatin in hot water. Add sugar, salt and lemon
juice. Chill until mixture starts to thicken. Add cabbage, celery, green
pepper or pimiento. Turn into loaf pan. Chill until set. For top layer,
soften gelatin in cold milk. Dissolve in hot milk. Add salt, onion and
cottage cheese. Spread over lime gelatin mixture and chill until firm.
Unmold on lettuce and serve with salad dressing. Yield: 8 servings.


APPLE GINGER ALE SALAD

  1½ envelopes unflavored gelatin
  ¼ cup cold water
  ½ cup hot pineapple juice
  ½ cup lemon juice
  2 tablespoons sugar
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  1 cup ginger ale
  ½ cup chopped celery
  1 cup chopped red skinned apples
  ⅓ cup chopped dates
  ½ cup broken pecans
  Few drops green vegetable coloring

Soften gelatin in cold water. Dissolve in hot pineapple juice. Add lemon
juice, sugar, salt, ginger ale and coloring. Chill until mixture begins
to congeal. Fold in celery, apple, dates and pecans. Pour into mold and
chill until firm. Yield: 8 servings.


RHU-BERRY SALAD

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  1 package frozen rhubarb
  2 envelopes unflavored gelatin
  ½ cup cold water
  1 package frozen strawberries
  1 cup ginger ale
  Red vegetable coloring

Cook frozen rhubarb about 5 minutes or until tender. Soften gelatin in
cold water; add to hot rhubarb and stir until dissolved. Cool slightly.
Add frozen strawberries and ginger ale to the mixture. Add enough red
vegetable coloring to give desired bright red color. Turn into mold.
Chill. Yield: 8 servings.


LIME-PINEAPPLE MOLD

  2 packages lime flavored gelatin
  3 cups hot water
  1 No. 2 can crushed pineapple (drained)
  1 pint sour cream

Dissolve gelatin in hot water (some pineapple juice can be substituted
for water). Chill in refrigerator until gelatin begins to congeal. Add
pineapple and sour cream. Chill until set. Yield: 12 servings.


ROQUEFORT CHEESE SALAD

  Two 3-ounce packages cream cheese
  1 ounce Roquefort or blue cheese
  ¾ cup milk
  1 envelope unflavored gelatin
  3 tablespoons cold water
  2 teaspoons lemon juice
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ¼ cup pistachio nuts, chopped
  Few drops green food coloring
  ½ cup heavy cream, whipped

Blend together cream cheese and Roquefort cheese. Add milk gradually and
mix well. Soften gelatin in cold water. Dissolve over hot water. Add
gelatin to cheese mixture, then lemon juice, salt and nuts. Tint a pale
green with food coloring. Fold in whipped cream; pour into mold and
chill until firm. Yield: 12 servings.


FRENCH DRESSING

  1 small onion or 1 clove of garlic, sliced
  ¼ cup vinegar or lemon juice
  1 tablespoon sugar
  ¾ teaspoon salt
  ⅛ teaspoon pepper
  ¼ teaspoon paprika
  ¾ cup salad oil

Add onion or garlic to vinegar, let stand 20 minutes; strain. Combine
sugar, salt, pepper and paprika in a jar or bowl. Add vinegar and oil.
Cover tightly and shake vigorously or beat with rotary egg beater or
electric mixer. Store in the refrigerator. Shake or beat dressing each
time before serving. Makes 1 cup dressing.


FRUIT FRENCH DRESSING

  ¼ cup orange juice
  ¼ cup pineapple juice
  2 tablespoons lemon juice
  ¼ cup salad oil
  2 teaspoons sugar
  ½ teaspoon salt

Combine juices, oil, sugar and salt in a jar or bowl. Shake or beat
vigorously until well blended. Store in refrigerator. Shake or beat
dressing each time before serving. Makes 1 cup dressing.


CELERY SEED DRESSING

  1¼ cups sugar
  2 teaspoons dry mustard
  2 teaspoons salt
  1 tablespoon onion juice
  ⅔ cup vinegar
  2 cups salad oil
  2 tablespoons celery seed

Combine sugar, mustard, salt, onion juice and ½ the vinegar. Beat well.
Then gradually add the oil alternately with the remaining vinegar, and
beat until a stable emulsion has been formed. Add the celery seed. Makes
about 3 cups.




                         _Refrigerator Cookies_


    [Illustration: Crisp, crunchy, delightfully fresh cookies at a
    moment’s notice are at your fingertips when your International
    Harvester Refrigerator holds an ever-ready supply of refrigerator
    cookie dough. Refrigerator cookie dough keeps well in your
    refrigerator for several weeks. When ready to bake cookies, merely
    cut off thin slices of dough and bake as directed. Re-wrap and
    return remaining dough to your refrigerator.]


“6 IN 1” REFRIGERATOR COOKIES

  1 cup butter
  ½ cup brown sugar
  ½ cup white sugar
  1 egg, beaten
  ½ teaspoon vanilla
  2 cups all-purpose flour
  ½ teaspoon soda
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  ½ square unsweetened chocolate, melted
  ¼ cup shredded coconut
  ¼ cup chopped raisins
  ¼ cup chopped pecans
  ½ teaspoon cinnamon
  ¼ teaspoon nutmeg

Cream butter. Gradually add sugar. Continue creaming until mixture is
light and fluffy. Add egg and vanilla. Mix well. Sift together flour,
soda and salt and gradually add to mixture. Beat well after each
addition. Divide dough into 6 equal portions. To one portion add
chocolate; coconut to another; raisins to another; pecans to another;
cinnamon and nutmeg to another and leave the last portion plain. Shape
each portion into a roll 1¾ inches in diameter. Wrap in waxed paper.
Chill in refrigerator. Cut into ⅛ inch slices. Bake on cookie sheet in
375° oven 10-12 minutes. Yield: 5 dozen cookies.


OATMEAL REFRIGERATOR COOKIES

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  1 cup flour
  2 teaspoons baking power
  ½ teaspoon salt
  3 cups rolled oats
  1 cup brown sugar
  1 cup butter, melted
  ¼ cup boiling water

Sift flour, baking powder and salt together. Add rolled oats and brown
sugar. Mix. Add butter and boiling water and mix well. Form into rolls,
wrap in waxed paper and chill in refrigerator several hours. Slice and
bake in moderate oven (350°F.) about 10 minutes. Yield: 8 dozen cookies.


VANILLA REFRIGERATOR COOKIES

  ½ cup shortening
  1 cup sugar
  1 egg, beaten
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  1½ cups sifted all-purpose flour
  ½ teaspoon soda
  ½ teaspoon salt

Cream shortening. Gradually add sugar. Continue creaming until mixture
is light and fluffy. Add egg and vanilla. Mix well. Sift flour, soda and
salt together and gradually add to mixture. Beat mixture after each
addition. Shape into a roll about 1¾ inches in diameter. Wrap in waxed
paper. Chill in refrigerator. Cut into ⅛ inch slices. Bake on cookie
sheet in a moderately hot oven (375°F.) for 7 to 10 minutes. Yield: 6
dozen cookies.




                          _Refrigerator Rolls_


    [Illustration: It is a particular advantage to have refrigerated
    dough for fresh rolls when entertaining or if the family is small
    and cannot use a full recipe at one time. Almost any yeast roll may
    be refrigerated three or four days satisfactorily. However, the
    recipe should contain plenty of yeast and sugar. When ready to use,
    the dough can be formed into rolls of any desired shape or into
    coffee cake. Refrigerating the dough at from 40°F. to 50°F. retards
    yeast activity. The surface of the dough must be greased and covered
    tightly to prevent drying or the formation of a hard crust.]


REFRIGERATOR ROLLS

  ¾ cup milk
  6 tablespoons sugar
  1 tablespoon salt
  5 tablespoons shortening
  ½ cup warm water
  2 cakes yeast
  1 egg
  4½ cups sifted flour

Scald milk. Add sugar, salt, shortening and stir. Cool this mixture
until lukewarm. Soften yeast cakes in warm water and let stand until
dissolved. Stir and add lukewarm milk mixture. Add beaten egg and 2 cups
flour, beat until smooth. Add remaining flour and mix well. Place dough
in a lightly greased bowl and brush top with melted shortening. Cover
and store in refrigerator, at least 2 hours. When ready to use, punch
dough down and cut off as much dough as desired. Form rolls and place in
greased muffin pans. Brush with melted butter, cover and let rise in a
warm place until doubled in bulk. Bake in hot oven (425°F.) about 15
minutes. Makes about 2 dozen rolls.


FOUNDATION SWEET DOUGH

  2 cakes yeast
  ¼ cup lukewarm water
  1 cup milk
  ¼ cup butter
  ½ cup sugar
  1 teaspoon salt
  2 eggs, beaten
  1 teaspoon grated lemon rind (if desired)
  5 cups sifted flour (about)

Soften yeast in lukewarm water. Scald milk. Add butter, sugar and salt
and cool to lukewarm. Add 2 cups flour and beat well. Add yeast, eggs
and lemon rind. Blend thoroughly. Add remaining flour to make a soft
dough. Turn out on lightly floured board and knead until satiny. Place
in a greased bowl, cover and let rise in warm place (80° to 85°F.) until
doubled in bulk. Punch down and form into smooth ball. Grease surface
lightly, cover and put into refrigerator. To use, remove dough from
refrigerator and punch down. Mold at once into rolls, tea rings or
coffee cakes, or if preferred, let dough stand in warm room for an hour,
punch down and mold. Place in greased pans and let rise until doubled in
bulk. Bake in moderate oven (375°F.) 20 to 25 minutes for rolls, 25 to
30 minutes for coffee cakes. Yield: about 3½ dozen rolls or two 12-inch
tea rings.




                           _Casserole Dishes_


    [Illustration: Colorful, tasty, all-in-one dishes—casseroles—are
    ideal as the main dish for luncheon or supper. They are the solution
    to clever disguising of left-over foods. They are the answer to
    time-saving, before-hand meal preparation. The casserole dish can be
    prepared several hours in advance, refrigerated, and later placed in
    the oven so as to be piping hot by meal time.

    As a rule, casserole dishes are made up of various combinations of a
    protein food, a starch, a vegetable, and a sauce. The sauce is
    either white sauce, plain or varied, or a cream soup. The starch may
    be noodles, spaghetti, macaroni, crackers, potatoes or potato chips,
    bread crumbs or a cereal. The protein food may be meat, fish,
    poultry or cheese. Often the vegetables and protein foods are
    leftovers which are cleverly combined to appear dressed-up in a new
    attire.

    For the majority of casserole dishes, a medium white sauce is the
    right consistency—the proportions being 2 tablespoons butter to 2
    tablespoons flour, ½ teaspoon salt, few grains pepper, and 1 cup
    milk. Thin sauce can be made by using 1 tablespoon butter and 1
    tablespoon flour to 1 cup milk.]

VARIATIONS: Added zest enhancing the flavor of casserole dishes can be
obtained by varying the sauce.

SUGGESTIONS: (These proportions are for 1 cup white sauce.)

PARSLEY SAUCE: Add 2 to 4 tablespoons chopped parsley after sauce has
cooled.

HORSERADISH SAUCE: Add ¼ cup grated horseradish, drained, and ¼ teaspoon
dry mustard.

CHEESE SAUCE: Add ½ cup grated cheese and a dash of paprika. Stir over
low heat until cheese is melted, or substitute 1½ teaspoons
Worcestershire Sauce for paprika.

OLIVE SAUCE: Add 1 egg, unbeaten, ¼ cup light cream and cook over hot
water 2 minutes, stirring constantly. Add ⅓ cup chopped ripe or stuffed
olives.




                              _Other Uses_


                               GARNISHES:

Many gay garnishes are easily made from raw vegetables. Place garnishes,
such as radish roses, celery curls or carrot sticks in a bowl of ice
water for crisping. Later these vegetables can be wrapped in a damp
cloth and stored in the refrigerator crisper until ready to serve.

                     SANDWICHES AND HORS D’OEUVRES:

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

Sandwiches and hors d’oeuvres can be successfully stored for several
hours in the household refrigerator. It is especially important that the
bread for hors d’oeuvres or sandwiches be spread generously with butter.
This is to prevent the filling from soaking into the bread. Wrap
sandwiches in waxed paper and then in a damp cloth. If they are arranged
on trays, cover with waxed paper and a damp cloth. Sandwich fillings,
too, can be stored in the refrigerator until serving time.


COTTAGE CHEESE FILLING

  1 pound cottage cheese, drained
  2 tablespoons chopped olives
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ¼ teaspoon pepper
  Dash of paprika
  5 drops tabasco

Combine all ingredients and mix well.


SALMON SALAD SANDWICH FILLING

  1 cup flaked salmon
  ¼ cup diced celery
  1 teaspoon minced onion
  2 teaspoons minced parsley
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  ½ teaspoon salt
  3 tablespoons mayonnaise

Combine all ingredients and mix thoroughly.


CHEESE SMOOTHY

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  ¼ pound American cheese
  2 hard cooked eggs
  2 teaspoons chopped onion
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  Dash paprika
  3 tablespoons mayonnaise
  2 teaspoons chopped pimiento

Put cheese and eggs through fine food chopper; add remaining ingredients
and mix well.


EGG SALAD SANDWICH FILLING

  3 hard cooked eggs, chopped
  2 tablespoons chopped green pepper
  2 tablespoons chopped celery
  3 tablespoons chopped green olives
  3 tablespoons chopped walnuts
  3 tablespoons mayonnaise
  1 tablespoon ketchup
  ¾ teaspoon salt

Combine all ingredients and mix well.


CABBAGE FILLING

  1 cup finely chopped raw cabbage
  3 slices crisp bacon, crumbled
  3 tablespoons mayonnaise
  1 teaspoon minced onion
  ⅛ teaspoon salt
  ⅛ teaspoon celery salt
  Dash of pepper

Combine all ingredients and mix well.


WIENIE SURPRISE SANDWICH FILLING

  4 frankfurters, cooked
  4 tablespoons pickle relish
  3-4 tablespoons mayonnaise

Put frankfurters through a fine food chopper. Add relish and mayonnaise.
Mix well.

    [Illustration: INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER]

1 005 043 R2. 11-1-50—75B.

LITHOGRAPHED IN UNITED STATES OF AMERICA




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
REFRIGERATOR RECIPES ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
